# Application-of-Artificial-Neural-Networks-in-Civil-Engineering
The Artificial Neural Network (ANN) approach has attracted wide attention and has found a growing number of applications now-a-days. The ANN is an object oriented computer programming and it is an effort to convert neurology of human brain into machine language, which has been achieved successfully. The ANN works like a human brain and can take its own decision based on past training given to it. The Information processing principle of Biological Neural Network have been applied in building a computer program for solving difficult problems whose solution normally requires the use of human intelligence. ANN can be investigated from a number of distinct perspectives such as computer science, psychology and neurobiology. In most cases, an ANN is an adaptive system that changes its structure based on external or internal information that flows through the network. In more practical terms neural networks are non-linear statistical data modeling tools. They can be used to model complex relationships between inputs and outputs or to find patterns in data. In a neural network model, simple nodes are connected together to form a network of nodes, hence the term neural network. While a neural network does not have to be adaptive, its practical use comes with algorithms designed to alter the strength (weights) of the connections in the network to produce a desired signal flow. Neural network models designed with emulation of the central nervous system in mind are a subject of theoretical neuroscience. ANN has been applied to many civil engineering problems in recent years. In these applications, modeling of material behaviour and characteristics plays an important role. This study is also about the determination of material characteristics of SIFCON concrete samples. 
With the help of neural network it is possible to predict the strength of concrete structures employing SIFCON for various combinations of fibre fractions and for different curing periods whereas, the same is a cumbersome process (not possible) in real time world with the available conventional methods. Accordingly for accurate prediction of strength characteristics of SIFCON for different composition of the material and the curing periods, an optimum ANN model needs to be identified and investigated.  In this research work four different ANN architecture models have been developed by considering various network topologies (number of layers and number of nodes in each layer), activation functions and optimization techniques to determine the optimal weights of the network connections. Besides this, the Polynomial Curve Fitting model is also used to investigate results of ANN models. 
